# Forecasting University's Funding Capacity
Every year, there are thousands of Proposals submission to the university's Research Funding. The funding environment can be challenging as most of the Proposals might not get accepted on their first submission. Obviously that there is competition among all the funding as they would like to raise as much as possible for their project. Also, from the situation provided by  Research, the department has been dealing with many human errors, and the three data sets are not completely clean. This would highly affect the department to estimate the Expenditures and funding for the next years. With the valuable records of their Proposals, Awards, and Expenditures record, this data can be used to create and maintain the relationships. Therefore, not only is the business goal to help the Research Department predict their next five years of Awards and Expenditures but also to identify their hit ratio. Firstly, it gives the clients a better insight into their current performance and improves their business strategy in the future. Secondly, in the hope of aid and achieve in the assess alignment with institutional strategic goals, which is increasing the US national University ranking..
## Project Goals:
The goal is to build a predictive model by using the current Proposals, Awards, and Expenditures data set from 2009 to 2019. The supervised task trains the model on the previous records. This result helps to learn about universities funding behavior for current projects as well as future projects. Using records from 2009 to 2019, the models will incorporate both causal and time-series factors. We will try to answer the following questions: 
•	What is the 5-year research funding and Expenditures outlook for the University? 
•	What is our “hit” rate? (Proposals that are converted to Awards) - overall and grouped by specific mechanisms/agencies, Sponsors, faculty, faculty rank, departments. 
•	How funding affect the faculty ranking and progressing in the career? gender difference?
•	One Proposals can apply to multiple Awards, one Award can be assigned to multiple Proposals? 
•	Which are some Proposals areas ( by department, title) underfunded and which are likely to be fulfilled? Potential reason and pattern
•	How diverse is each Award’s (Sponsor’s) distribution? 
•	Better allocation of Awards and expense can increase the fulfillment of Proposals?
